'\" t
.\"     Title: pam_panic
.\"    Author: [see the "AUTHORS" section]
.\"      Date: 2018-03-26
.\"    Manual: Linux-PAM Panic Manual
.\"    Source: Linux-PAM Panic Manual
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "PAM_PANIC" "8" "2018-03-26" "PAM Panic Manual" "PAM Panic Manual"
.\".ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.\".el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------


.SH "NAME"
pam_panic \- PAM module with panic function to protect sensitive data in emergency situations


.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP \w'\fBpam_panic.so\fR\ 'u
\fBpam_panic.so\fR [password] [allow=\fIUUID(GPT)\fR] [reject=\fIUUID(GPT)\fR] [reboot] [poweroff] [serious=\fIUUID\fR]


.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The pam_panic PAM module protects sensitive data and provides a panic function for emergency situations.
.PP
There are two possible options in how to use this PAM module:
.PD 0
.PP
First possible option:
.RS 2
There are two removable media which work as keys: the auth key and the panic key.
The auth key will let you pass to the password prompt whereas the panic key will call the \fIpanic function\fR.
.PD 0
.PP
See options \fBallow\fR and \fBreject\fR.
.RE
.PP
Second possible option:
.RS 2
There are two passwords: the key password and the panic password. The key password will let you pass to the original password prompt whereas the panic password will call the \fIpanic function\fR.
.PD 0
.PP
See option \fBpassword\fR.
.RE

.PD 1
.PP
The panic function:
.RS 2
The behaviour of this function is defined through the arguments \fBreboot\fR, \fBpoweroff\fR and/or \fBserious\fR. See the \fBOPTIONS\fR section for details.
.RE


.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fBpassword\fR
.RS 4
Activates the password function having a panic and key password.
If the options \fBallow\fR and \fBreject\fR are provided this option will be ignored.
.PD 0
.PP
These passwords can be set with the \fBpam_panic_pw\fR(1) command.
.RE
.PD 1
.PP

\fBallow=\fR\fB\fIUUID(GPT)\fR\fR
.RS 4
The UUID of the device to be used for authentication (the auth key).
.PD 0
.PP
.PD 1
The device must be GPT-formatted and contain at least one partition.
The UUID of a GPT-formatted device looks like "12345678-9ABC-DEF0-1234-56789ABCDEF0".
.PP
See \fBHOW TO DETERMINE MY UUIDS\fR for details.
.RE
.PP

\fBreject=\fR\fB\fIUUID(GPT)\fR\fR
.RS 4
The UUID of the device to be used in emergencies. The presence of this device will trigger \fBreboot\fR, \fBpoweroff\fR and/or the panic function, depending on whether \fBreboot\fR, \fBpoweroff\fR, and/or \fBserious\fR are specified.
.PD 0
.PP
.PD 1
The device must be GPT-formatted and contain at least one partition.
The UUID of a GPT-formatted device looks like "12345678-9ABC-DEF0-1234-56789ABCDEF0".
.PP
See \fBHOW TO DETERMINE MY UUIDS\fR for details.
.RE
.PP

\fBreboot\fR (recommended)
.RS 4
Indicates that the system should reboot when the \fIpanic function\fR is triggered.
.PD 0
.PP
This option is recommended.
.PD 1
.PP
If \fBpoweroff\fR is also specified, \fBreboot\fR will be ignored.
.RE
.PP

\fBpoweroff\fR
.RS 4
Indicates that the system should shut down when the \fIpanic function\fR is triggered.
This option is discouraged for security reasons.
.RE
.PP

\fBserious=\fR\fB\fIUUID\fR\fR
.RS 4
The UUID of the device containing the LUKS header to erase when the \fIpanic function\fR is triggered. Erasing the LUKS header will render the data unreadable.
.PD 0
.PP
The internal command which will be executed is "\fBcryptsetup luksErase [UUID]\fR".
.PD 1
.PP
NOTE: You should make a backup of the LUKS header before using this function.
.RE
.PP


.SH "USAGE"
.PP
To activate the module you have to configure PAM. See \fBpam.conf(5)\fR for details.
.PP
In general, you will want to add the following to the top of a PAM configuration file:
.PD 0
.RS 4
auth       requisite    __PAMPANICSO__ auth=<UUID> reject=<UUID> reboot serious=<UUID>
.PP
account    requisite    __PAMPANICSO__
.RE
Or: 
.RS 4
auth       requisite    __PAMPANICSO__ password reboot serious=<UUID>
.PP
account    requisite    __PAMPANICSO__
.RE
.PD 1


.SH "HOW TO DETERMINE MY UUIDS"
.PP
You will find your UUIDs in \fI/dev/disk/by-partuuid\fR.
You might want to execute "\fBls -l /dev/disk/by-partuuid/\fR" in your favourite shell to find out which UUID is which device.


.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
PAM_SUCCESS
.RS 4
Access was granted.
.RE
.PP
PAM_IGNORE
.RS 4
An error has occured. The module will be ignored.
.RE
.PP
PAM_MAXTRIES
.RS 4
The removable media was not detected.
.RE


.SH "FILES"
.PP
__PAMPANICSO__
.RS 4
This PAM module, which does everything of this above.
.RE
.PP
__PAMPANICPW__
.RS 4
Program to set and change the passwords.
.RE


.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Please report bugs and send pull requests to <https://github.com/pampanic/pam_panic>.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBpam_panic_pw\fR(1),
\fBcryptsetup\fR(8),
\fBpam\fR(8),
\fBpam.conf\fR(5)


.SH "AUTHORS"
.PD 0
.PP
pam_panic was written by Bandie <bandie@chaospott.de>.
.PP
This man page has been revised by Jordy Dickinson <jordy.dickinson@icloud.com>
